DOCS-3077, DOCS-3037, DOCS-3038 AppSec Landing Page, Getting Started, Setup n Config (#12951)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/application_security/getting_started/go.md

---
title: Go Applications
kind: documentation
code_lang: go
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 20
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/tree/v1'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: 'Go Datadog Library source code'
---

{{% appsec-getstarted %}}
- One of the [supported APM tracing integrations][1].
- [CGO][2] is enabled in your build environment, along with the C library headers and the C toolchain for your compilation target. For detailed instructions, see [Enabling CGO][3]

## Get started

1. **Update your program's dependencies** with the latest version of the Datadog Go library (version 1.36.0 or later):

   ```console

>    $ go get -v -u gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1@v1.36.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ go get -v -u gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1
```

---
title: Go Applications
kind: documentation
code_lang: go
type: multi-code-lang
code_lang_weight: 20
further_reading:
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/tree/v1'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: 'Go Datadog Library source code'
---

{{% appsec-getstarted %}}

> - [CGO][1] and a C toolchain are enabled in your build environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CGO][1] is enabled in your build environment, along with the C library headers and the C toolchain for your compilation target.
```

## Get started

1. **Add or update your program's dependencies** with the latest version of the Datadog Go library, at least version 1.36.0:

>    ```
>    go get -v -u gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1@v1.36.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```console
   $ go get -v -u gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1@v1.36.0
```

   ```

> 

Author: I listed the general requirement to have an APM tracing integration as a prereq on this page, and moved the list to the setup/config page.

> 2. **Recompile your program by adding the `appsec` build tag** using the Go compiler option `-tags appsec`:
>    ```
>    go build -tags appsec my-program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Recompile your program** while enabling AppSec and CGO:
   ```console
   $ env CGO_ENABLED=1 go build -v -tags appsec my-program
```

   ```

> 3. **Redeploy your Go service and enable Application Security** by setting the `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Redeploy your Go service and enable Application Security** by setting the `DD_APPSEC_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`:
```

>    ```
>    env DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true ./my-program

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```console
   $ env DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true ./my-program
```

   ```
   Or one of the following methods, depending on where your application runs:

   {{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Docker CLI" %}}

> Update your configuration container for APM by adding the following argument in your `docker run` command: 
> 
> ```
> docker run [...] -e DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true [...] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the environment variable value to your docker command line:

```console
$ docker run -e DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true [...]
```

```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Dockerfile" %}}

> Add the following environment variable value to your container Dockerfile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the environment variable value to your container Dockerfile:
```

```
ENV DD_APPSEC_ENABLED=true
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

> Update your configuration yaml file container for APM and add the AppSec env variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the environment variable to your configuration file:
```

Reviewer 2: Added "deployment configuration file", to all other Kubernetes sections, based on our existing Kubernetes docs.

Author: ```suggestion
Update your deployment configuration file for APM and add the Application Security environment variable:
```

```
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: <CONTAINER_NAME>
          image: <CONTAINER_IMAGE>/<TAG>
          env:
            - name: DD_APPSEC_ENABLED
              value: "true"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS ECS" %}}

> Update your ECS task definition JSON file, by adding this in the  environment section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the environment variable to your ECS task definition JSON file:
```

Author: ```suggestion
Update your ECS task definition JSON file, by adding this in the environment section:
```

```
"environment": [
  ...,
  {
    "name": "DD_APPSEC_ENABLED",
    "value": "true"
  }
]
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

{{% appsec-getstarted-2 %}}

{{< img src="/security_platform/application_security/application-security-signal.png" alt="Security Signal details page showing tags, metrics, suggested next steps, and attacker IP addresses associated with a threat." style="width:100%;" >}}

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: Advanced installation details (extracted from our Sqreen documentation https://docs.sqreen.com/go/installation/#advanced-installation):

```suggestion
## Requirements installation

The compilation of AppSec involves [CGO][1] and therefore requires:

- The `gcc` compiler for the target `GOOS` and `GOARCH`.
- The C library headers.
- The CGO bindings enabled. This is controlled by the `CGO_ENABLED` environment
  variable which is enabled by default when compiling natively.  
  If CGO is disabled, major agent features such as RASP and WAF will be
  disabled.

Examples of requirements installation on common systems:

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Debian/Ubuntu" %}}
    ```console
    $ apt install gcc libc6-dev
    ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Alpine" %}}
    ```console
    $ apk add gcc musl-dev
    ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "RHEL/CentOS/Fedora" %}}
    ```console
    $ yum install gcc glibc-devel
    ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "macOS" %}}
    ```console
    $ xcode-select --install 
    ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Please note that the Go toolchain disables CGO when cross-compiling.

## Further Reading
```

Author: I have added this content, but put it on the Setup and Config page where the rest of that kind of information is going. It's linked to from the prereq section on this Go Getting Started page.

Reviewer: Perfect, thank you very much.

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://pkg.go.dev/cmd/cgo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/cgo
```
